---
layout: default
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2018-03-02 11:07:02 +1100
categories: MYOB
---

## [](#header-1)Week 2: Tasks Completed / Interesting Workshops

* * *


## [](#header-2) Project
On Monday, I talked to my mentor Graham, and he gave me a project with the following specifications.

Java backend
Web Framework - Spring Framework, Spring Boot, create JSON API
Database - Postgres, ORM tool use hibernate from Spring
Java 8, look at streams, no loops
https://start.spring.io/ add Web, Postgres, JPA, use Gradle
PostGres database viewer https://www.pgadmin.org/

Break code into layers,
- Controller - handling the endpoint mapping, external stuff, calling service
- Service - usually is the business logic
- Repository, entity belongs to here, the only place that should talk to db
- Api Models

1. Monday: talked to graham and he gave me a project to start working on (reference email). Spent time setting up a zen hub board breaking down the tasks. Spent time getting the db actually connected, because IntelliJ was throwing me errors associated with the datasource - had to change application.properties to the url of the db
HIBERNATE is taking issues - can’t find hibernate properties
Download java 1.8 instead of 9, because 9 is bad
Project is set up, need to figure out how to not print so much stuff to the console cause its killing me
Need to think of a domain problem

2. Wednesday:
Is it good practice to specify all the required headers
3.1 http://www.baeldung.com/spring-requestmapping
Or should I instead go through the given JSON and validate it there?
DAO vs Repository
Ask graham about spring data, spring jpa and hibernate, and when to use which
Currently the data is not being saved when the application closes  


Look at dataJPATest
Transactional

Fixed an issue with posting with an image for testing
Looking at socket programming with java.net
Did code kata -> pair programmed w/ Pedro

## [](#header-2) Workshops
Basic Networking


## [](#header-2) Generators
On Friday, Pedro and I tackled some codewars challenges together. We came across
a problem of generating combinations. Initially we looked for inspiration on the internet,
and as a result we came across generators. I had previously approached generators when
I was learning Python in my first year of uni, however I had struggled to understand
why they were used and how. As such we asked Sol to give us a brief overview of what they
were and why/how they worked.

```
def fib():
    a = 0
    b = 1
    while True:
        yield a
        a, b = b, a + b

a = fib()
a.next()
```

I feel the best way to explain is with an example. Firstly, the reason why we use
generators is to minimise the amount of data/memory we are currently using.
All we need to store is the current state of the function, the current state of
the variables a & b.


## [](#header-2) What do I do?
There was this whole debacle on slack that we proteges shouldn't even look at spring
anymore? I agree in that we should learn the fundamentals, but he should really
be discussing that with our mentors. Theres a reason we are proteges and that's
because we lack knowledge, so it's difficult for us to say, yea that's the correct option,
i'm going to do that. We expect the people in charge of this program to best coordinate
what we should learn as to provide us with a foundation. That's not to say we shouldn't
take the initiative and attempt to do that ourselves, but there's just so much information
out there, so much knowledge that it's impossible for us to clearly know
what the most "important" fundamentals are, especially for industry...

* * *
