---
layout: default
title:  "Orientation"
date:   2018-02-09 11:07:02 +1100
categories: MYOB
---

# [](#header-1)Orientation

* * *

## [](#header-1)Monday and Tuesday
These two days, despite being quite tiring, were also incredibly useful, as
a lot of my queries and lack of knowledge about MYOB and its structure was
answered. One critique would be to provide a more interactive platform when
giving presentations, not in the form of asking questions from the proteges,
but more so creating group activities or even simple quizes.

## [](#header-1)Wednesday
Personally, one of the highlights of the orientation program was the introduction
of the REACH program, which I found incredibly entertaining. I believe its value
lies in its ability in improving relationships among grads, by providing a
platform to act more freely. I think this program should definitely continue
as part of MYOB's protege program.

Additionally, the "unconference" event at the Brauhaus bar was amazing. I
really enjoyed the opportunity to talk and drink with managers, developers
and dev leads from not only people from Melbourne, but also people from
Sydney and Auckland.

## [](#header-1)Thursday
Thursday was a very useful day as part of orientation. Being exposed to the
front side of the company, the people who sell the company was a great
experience, particularly being given the opportunity to listen in on calls
aswell.

## [](#header-1)Friday
I think the activities/contents of Friday was a great way to end the week.
Being able to reflect on previous activities, what we've learnt, and more so
generally just reiterate what we've undergone is extremely useful.


* * *
